DATA SCIENCE FOR BUSINESS LEADERS

TYPES OF DATA SCIENCE

- Descriptive Analytics (Business Intelligence): Get useful data in front of the right people in the form of dashboards, reports, and emails.
Examples:
	- Which customers have churned?
	- Which homes have sold in a given location, and do homes of a
		certain size sell more quickly?

- Predictive Analytics (Machine Learning): Put data science models continuously into production.
Examples:
	- Which customers may churn?
	- How much will a home sell for, given its location and number of
		rooms?

- Prescriptive Analytics (Decision Science): Use data to help a company make decisions.
Examples:
	- What should we do about the particular types of customers that are prone to churn?
	- How should we market a home to sell quickly, given its location
		and number of rooms?

STANDARD DATA SCIENCE WORKFLOW

1. Data Collection: Compile data from different sources and store it for efficient access.
2. Exploration and Visualization: Explore and visualize data through dashboards.
3. Experimentation and Prediction: Use the data to get insights.

DATA SCIENCE TEAM MEMBERS

- Data Engineer | Store and maintain data | SQL/Java/Scala/Python
- Data Analyst | Visualize and describe data | SQL + Business Intelligence Tools + Spreadsheets
- Machine Learning Engineer | Write production-level code to predict with data | Python/Java/R
- Data Scientist | Build custom models to drive business decisions | Python/R/SQL

DATA SCIENCE TEAM ORGANISATIONAL MODELS

- Centralised/Isolated: The data team is the owner of data and answers requests from other teams.
- Embedded: Data experts are dispersed across an organization and report to functional leaders.
- Hybrid: Data experts sit with functional teams and also report to the Chief Data Scientist, so data is an organizational priority.

EXP

Machine Learning

Common Dashboard Elements

Machine learning is an application of artificial intelligence (AI) that builds
algorithms and statistical models to train data to address specific questions
without explicit instructions.

Type

What is it best for?

Time series

Tracking a value over time

Stacked bar chart

Tracking composition over time

Bar chart

Categorical comparison

Example

Popular Dashboard Tools
Spreadsheets

BI Tools

Customized Tools

Excel

Power BI

R Shiny

Sheets

Tableau

d3.js

Looker

Supervised Machine Learning

Unsupervised Machine Learning

Purpose

Makes predictions from data
with labels and features

Makes predictions by
clustering data with no
labels into categories

Example

Recommendation systems, email
subject optimization, churn
prediction

Image segmentation,
customer segmentation

Special Topics in Machine Learning
Time Series Forecasting is a technique for predicting events through a
sequence of time and can capture seasonality or periodic events.
Natural Language Processing (NLP) allows computers to process and analyze
large amounts of natural language data.
- Text as input data

When You Should Request a Dashboard
When you’ll use it multiple times

When you’ll need the information updated regularly

When the request will always be the same

- Word counts track the important words in a text
- Word embeddings create features that group similar words
Deep Learning / Neural Networks enables Explainable AI is an emerging field in
unsupervised machine learning using data machine learning that applies AI such
that is unstructured or unlabeled.
that results can be easily understood.
Highly accurate predictions

Understandable by humans

Better for “What?”

Better for “Why?"

www.datacamp.com/courses/data-science-for-business

www.datacamp.com/groups/business

