Reduce the dimensionality:
principal component analysis
minimum redundancy maximum relevance 

Techniques:
Random Forest, Neural Networks and Decision tree
Neural Networks: training computer to perform a task by analyzing training examples.
Random Forest: Prediction of many decision trees into a single model 
Decision Tree: Two Types: Classification(Yes/no) and Regression Trees(Continuous Data)

Advantage:
Random Forest: less computationally expensive, does not require a GPU to finish training. offer a superior method for working with missing data. Missing values are substituted by the variable appearing the most in a particular node.
* Handle big data with numerous variables running into thousands. It can automatically balance data sets when a cless is more infrequent than other classes in the data.
Overall, Random forest is a (mostly) fast, simple and flexible tool

Decision Tree: Good for Historical data as it can analyse from it to predict certain outcomes. Allows for demographic data which can help analyse certain correlations between diseases and variables.
Easier to read and interpret, and less data cleaning required once the variables have been created. 
* Cases of missing values and outliers have less significance on decision tree's data

Neural networks: Ability to learn from events and make decisions through commenting on similar events.
* has the ability to perform multiple functions at the same time.

Disadvantages:
Neural Networks: require much more data than an everyday person might have on hand to be effective
Neural networks will simply decimate the interpretability of our features to the point where it becomes meaningless for the sake of performance

Decision Tree: Largely unstable compared to other techniques, a small chance in the data can result in a major change in the structure of the tree. which may convey a different result from what users will get in a normal event.(can be fixed using algorithms BOOSTING and BAGGING)
Less effective in predicting the outcome of a continuous variable as decision trees tend to lose information when categorizing variables into multiple categories.

Random Forest: large number of trees can make the alogrithm too slow and ineffective for real-time predictions. These algorithms are fast to train, but quite slow to create predictions once they are trained. A more accurate prediction requires more trees, which results in a slower model. In most real-world applications, the random forest algorithm is fast enough but there can certainly be situations where run-time performance is important and other approaches would be preferred.

* If the goal is to create a prediction model without care for the variables at play, by all means use a neural network, but you’ll need the resources to do so.

Accuracy:
77.87% Using a decision tree model
76.13% Using a logistic regression model
73.23% Using the artificial neural networks

https://bmcendocrdisord.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s12902-019-0436-6 (type 2 diabetes)
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877050920308024
https://www.xoriant.com/blog/product-engineering/decision-trees-machine-learning-algorithm.html

Summary:

DT A: historical, demographic, discrete data | missing data has less impact
DT D: unstable, small changes => massive changes (fix by boosting) | less useful for continuous

RF A: cheap on resources, split load | missing data has very little impact
RF D: accurate predictions require many trees, fast to train, slow to predict

NN A: can learn and improve quickly over time from initial training data
NN D: requires large initial dataset for training and testing | may require lots of initial human training and knowledge engineering